In this lecture we will learn about several box properties that CSF provides us to allow us to modify
an elements box the combination of its content padding border and margins the box sizing property allows
us to specify whether or not padding and borders should affect the elements width and height of value
of content box means that the full height and width will be the height and width values plus the values
of the borders and padding.
Note that content box is also the default value for this example lets first add a paragraph element
or some example text to our Web page then we will add an opening and closing style tag to our code.
We will use the paragraph element selector and give our element a background color of blue.
We will also use the box sizing property and give it a value of content box.
We will give our element a height and width of 100 pixels and a petting value of 20 pixels.
Then we will go to the web browser and run our code.
Let's jump back to the editor
of value of border box means that the box will have the specified width and height regardless of borders
and padding.
Let's give the box sizing property a value of border box and then run our code
then we will go back to the editor and look at another example.
We can use the min with Max with min height and max height properties to specify the minimum or maximum
height and width for elements.
If these values are specified the web page will automatically rescale our element to meet the specified
values domain with property specifies the minimum with for an element that prevents the specified with
aliment from being less than the value we assign the men with property.
Let's build on the current example and give our element of menwith of 120 pixels even though we gave
our aliment a width of 100 pixels the main with is 120 pixels so our element will display at a width
of 120 pixels.
Let's go to the web browser and run our code
then we will jump back to the editor
the max with property lets us specify the maximum with for an element if the element goes past this
with it will be rescaled to fit inside of the specified Max with for example a text element that overflows
past this with will force text exceeding a specified Max way to go to the next line so that the text
does not go past the specified max width.
Then we will use the max with property and give it a value of 100 pixels.
Then we will run our code in the web browser as you can see our paragraph element was resized since
we gave it a max width of 100 pixels.
Let's jump back to the editor for the next examples we will add two developments to our Web page.
We will give the first different idea of Div 1 and the second give an idea of Div 2 will give both divs
a heightened with the 50 pixels and a background color of red.
We will give our second div a position of relative and aleft value of 300 pixels.
This will allow us to clearly see both gives the Monheit properties specifies the minimum height for
an element.
It prevents the specified elements height from being less than the value we assign the min height property.
Let's give our first div a min height property with a value of 100 pixels.
Then we will run our code in the browser.
As you can see our first def has a height of 100 pixels even though we give both divs a height of 50
pixels.
We specify that our first divs minimum height is 100 pixels.
Let's go back to the editor and look at another example.
The max height property lets us specify the maximum height for an element.
If an element height exceeds the specified max height the element will overflow.
But we can specify an overflow behavior by adding the overflow property.
Let's give our div one element the max height of 10 pixels and then run our code in the browser as you
can see our first div has a height of 10 pixels even though both divs were given a height of 50 pixels
we specify the max height of our first to be 10 pixels.
Let's jump back to the editor for the following examples let's go back to using a paragraph element.
The box Shatto property let's say had a box Shatto to our elements to make this element look right.
We want to add a border around our element as the box shadow will be in the shape of a rectangular box.
Let's give our element a box shadow with a horizontal offset of 5 pixels and a vertical offset of 10
pixels.
Then we will run our code in the web browser as you can see there is now a box shadow behind our element.
Let's go back to the editor the box Shatto property as to required values horizontal offset and vertical
offset.
There are several optional values for the box Shatto property.
We can add a blurb to a box châteaux.
The higher the blur value the more it will be blurred.
Let's add a blur of five pixels to a drop shadow then we will go to the web browser and run our code.
As you can see our box shadow now has a 5 pixel blar.
Let's jump back to the editor.
We can also add a spread to Harbach châteaux the higher the value of the spread the larger our shadow
will be.
We'll give our box shadow a spread of 12 pixels and then run our code as you can see our back shadow
increased in size since we gave it a positive spread value.
Let's go back to the editor and negative value will decrease the size of the shadow.
We will give our box shadow a spread of negative 2 pixels and then run our code as you can see our back
Shadow got smaller since we gave it a negative spread.
Let's go back to the editor.
We also have the option of getting a color you are shadowed by supplying a color value.
Let's give our box shadow a color of purple then we will run our code as you can see our BOQ shadow
is now the color purple.
We will go back to the editor and look at another example.
Adding an inset value makes no shadow an internal shadow as opposed to an external shadow.
Let's give our element in insets shadow and then run our code as you can see the shadow on our element
is now internal as opposed to external.
Let's go back to the editor.
We can also add multiple shadows by separating the group of values for each shadow by a comma.
Let's say another box Shatto to our element with a horizontal offset of 5 pixels a vertical offset of
10 pixels a blur of 5 pixels a spread of negative 2 pixels and the color blue then we will run our code
in the browser.
You will notice that the second box Shatto that we added to our element is displayed in the next lecture.
We will learn about the outline properties that CSSA gives us access to.